Initial bits for the interaction service (#4045)
dotnet/docs-aspire: docs/extensibility/interaction-service.md

The `IInteractionService.PromptMessageBoxAsync` method displays a message with customizable response options.

:::code source="snippets/InteractionService/AppHost.MessageBoxExample.cs" id="example":::

**Dashboard view:**

:::image type="content" source="media/interaction-service-message-dialog.png" lightbox="media/interaction-service-message-dialog.png" alt-text="Aspire dashboard interface showing a message dialog with a title, message, and buttons.":::

**CLI view:**

The `PromptMessageBoxAsync` method only works in the dashboard context. If you call it during `aspire publish` or `aspire deploy`, the method throws an exception and doesn't display a message in the CLI.

### Display a notification message

Notification messages provide nonmodal notifications.

> [!TIP]
> In the dashboard, notification messages appear stacked at the top, so you can show several messages at once. You can display notifications one after another by awaiting each dismissal before showing the next. Or, you can display multiple notifications at the same time without waiting for each to be dismissed.

<!-- <xref:Aspire.Hosting.IInteractionService.PromptNotificationAsync%2A> -->

> The `IInteractionService.PromptNotificationAsync` method displays informational messages with optional action links in the dashboard context. You don't have to await the result of a notification message if you don't need to. This is especially useful for notifications, since you might want to display them and continue without waiting for user interaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `IInteractionService.PromptNotificationAsync` method displays informational messages with optional action links in the dashboard context. You don't have to await the result of a notification message if you don't need to. This is especially useful for notifications, since you might want to display a notification and continue without waiting for user to dismiss it.
```

Use the interaction service when you need the user to confirm an action before proceeding. The `IInteractionService.PromptConfirmationAsync` method displays a confirmation prompt in the dashboard context. Confirmation prompts are essential for destructive operations or actions that have significant consequences. They help prevent accidental actions and give users a chance to reconsider their decisions.

### Prompt for confirmation before destructive operations

For operations that can't be undone, such as deleting resources, always prompt for confirmation:

:::code source="snippets/InteractionService/AppHost.ConfirmationExample.cs" id="example":::

**Dashboard view:**

:::image type="content" source="media/interaction-service-confirmation.png" lightbox="media/interaction-service-confirmation.png" alt-text="Aspire dashboard interface showing a confirmation dialog with a title, message, and buttons for confirming or canceling the operation.":::

**CLI view:**

The `PromptConfirmationAsync` method isn't available in CLI contexts. If you call it during `aspire publish` or `aspire deploy`, the method throws an exception.

## Prompt for user input

> The interaction service API allows you to prompt users for input in various ways. You can collect single values or multiple values, with support for different input types including text, secrets, choices, booleans, and numbers. The presentation adapts automatically to the execution context.

Reviewer: I think it is worth summarizing the different choices up front. Something like:

```
| Type        | Dashboard                                      | CLI prompt                     |
|-------------|------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|
| `Text`      | Textbox                                        | Text prompt                    |
| `SecretText`| Textbox with masked input                      | Masked text prompt             |
| `Choice`    | Dropdown box of options                        | Choice prompt                  |
| `Boolean`   | Checkbox                                       | Boolean choice prompt          |
| `Number`    | Number textbox                                 | Text prompt                    |
```

> ### Prompt user for a single input

Reviewer: Up to you if you think it is better to introduce prompts this way.

<!-- <xref:Aspire.Hosting.IInteractionService.PromptInputAsync%2A> -->

> Use the `IInteractionService.PromptInputAsync` method to collect a single piece of information from the user. This method supports various input types through the `InteractionInput` class. Consider the following example, that prompts the user for an API key as a secret input value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `IInteractionService.PromptInputAsync` method to collect a single piece of information from the user. This method supports various input types through the <xref:Aspire.Hosting.InteractionInput> class. Consider the following example, that prompts the user for an API key as a secret input value:
```

```Aspire
aspire deploy

Step 1: Analyzing model.

       ✓ DONE: Analyzing the distributed application model for publishing and deployment capabilities. 00:00:00
           Found 1 resources that support deployment. (FakeResource)

✅ COMPLETED: Analyzing model. completed successfully

═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

Configure your application deployment settings:
Application Name: example-app
Environment:  Staging
Instance Count: 3
Enable Monitoring: [y/n] (n): y
✓ DEPLOY COMPLETED: Deploying completed successfully
```

Depending on the input type, the CLI might display additional prompts. For example, the `Enable Monitoring` input is a boolean choice, so the CLI prompts for a yes/no response. If you enter `y`, it enables monitoring; if you enter `n`, it disables monitoring. For the environment input, the CLI displays a list of available environments for selection:

```Aspire
Configure your application deployment settings:
Application Name: example-app
Environment:

> Development
  Staging
  Testing

(Type to search)
```

#### Input validation

> For complex scenarios, you can provide custom validation logic using the `InputsDialogInteractionOptions.ValidationCallback` property:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Basic input validation is available by configuring <xref:Aspire.Hosting.InteractionInput>. It provides options for requiring a value, or the maximum text length of `Text` or `SecretText` fields.

For complex scenarios, you can provide custom validation logic using the `InputsDialogInteractionOptions.ValidationCallback` property:
```

```csharp
// Multiple inputs with custom validation
var databaseInputs = new List<InteractionInput>
{
    new()
    {
        Label = "Database Name",
        InputType = InputType.Text,
        Required = true,
        Placeholder = "myapp-db"
    },
    new()
    {

>         Label = "Username",

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
        Label = "User name",
```

        InputType = InputType.Text,
        Required = true,
        Placeholder = "admin"
    },
    new()
    {
        Label = "Password",
        InputType = InputType.SecretText,
        Required = true,
        Placeholder = "Enter a strong password"
    },
    new()
    {

>         Label = "Confirm Password",

Reviewer: Only capitalize first word is dashboard standard
```suggestion
        Label = "Confirm password",
```

        InputType = InputType.SecretText,
        Required = true,
        Placeholder = "Confirm your password"
    }
};

var validationOptions = new InputsDialogInteractionOptions
{
    ValidationCallback = async context =>
    {
        var passwordInput = context.Inputs.FirstOrDefault(i => i.Label == "Password");

>         var confirmPasswordInput = context.Inputs.FirstOrDefault(i => i.Label == "Confirm Password");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        var confirmPasswordInput = context.Inputs.FirstOrDefault(i => i.Label == "Confirm password");
```

        // Validate password strength
        if (passwordInput?.Value is { Length: < 8 })
        {
            context.AddValidationError(passwordInput, "Password must be at least 8 characters long");
        }

        // Validate password confirmation
        if (passwordInput?.Value != confirmPasswordInput?.Value)
        {
            context.AddValidationError(confirmPasswordInput!, "Passwords do not match");
        }

        await Task.CompletedTask;
    }
};

var dbResult = await interactionService.PromptInputsAsync(

>     title: "Database Configuration",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    title: "Database configuration",
```
